Thank you very much.
Welcome to day number two at
Worldwide Developers Conference 2012,
and we're here to talk about games.
So, as we talked about yesterday,
some amazing announcements as far as the
scope and the breadth of the application
that all of you have developed.
650,000 applications we have.
Many of them are games.
And we talked yesterday in the platforms
kickoff about both of our platforms,
iOS, OS X.
We're trying to build a great set
of game technologies that spans
both of those platforms that gives
you the best set of technologies
and tools to build great games.
So from a game technology standpoint,
we have an amazing array of technologies.
We have everything from OpenGL and
OpenGL ES to AV Foundation,
Core Image.
We have great graphics tools.
We provide you great hardware,
Retina Display, A5X Processor,
now Ivory Bridge in our Macs.
Fantastic array of technologies.
For the games kickoff,
we're going to focus on five of these.
We're going to focus on Game Center,
Retina Display, graphics tools, AirPlay,
and Core Image.
And what I want to do is I want to
change some paradigms in your thinking,
change the way you may approach
some of these technologies,
and give you an overview of
where we have some new features.
There are sessions all week that go
into depth in these technologies.
So let's jump right in
with the Game Center.
We talked about yesterday 130
million Game Center players.
That's just an amazing number of players.
And what's even more amazing
is 5 billion scores per week.
That's playing your applications.
One of the key things about
Game Center is it makes
your games more accessible.
It makes them sticky,
makes you be able to find them,
makes you play together.
And I had a developer come up to
me after the Kickoff yesterday,
and they said they had
a single-player game,
and they realized that
really the single-player game
is really like an island.
It is alone,
and they already started working
on integrating Game Center.
So really, if you're in the minority
and you have not integrated
Game Center into your games,
now is the time to do that.
So Game Center, as we announced,
is available on iOS and OS X for the Mac.
We also announced yesterday that
we have a new Game Center with
a bunch of new features.
That new Game Center will be available
on iOS 6 and for OS X this fall.
So you'll have the same
Game Center across the platform
to work for your games.
So if you're new to Game Center,
let's do a little bit of
an overview as far as what
pieces we have in Game Center.
So first, we have the Game Center app.
And the Game Center app is
kind of the hub for the player.
So it'll allow players
to find their friends,
find games, inspect the challenges,
and see the leaderboard,
see where they rank in the gaming
world as far as the Game Center app.
The game kit is your API for Game Center.
It also includes some API for some
of the in-game multiplayer invites,
and it includes a wide array of API.
The interesting thing about this is
when we brought the game kit to the Mac,
we took a conscious effort
to make sure that it's almost
identical between iOS and the Mac.
We don't want you having to rewrite
code or put a bunch of if-defs
around code blocks because we change
the behavior in a very small way.
So there's very few differences
between the game kit
framework on iOS and the Mac,
making it super easy to adopt.
and finally we have the
Game Center services which
provide the cloud support,
provide the leaderboards,
achievement uploading,
provide the multiplayer invites,
all the back end of Game Center.
So that's kind of the
overview of the pieces.
The things it provides are friends,
leaderboards, achievements, multiplayer,
real-time and turn-based, voice chat,
and discovery.
And again, let's reiterate on
discovery a little bit.
What we want to do is we want to provide
services that make it easy to find
your game so you can differentiate.
If you have a unique game,
it doesn't get hidden in amongst
the many other games out there.
You can define your game,
you can have players attracted to it,
they can tell their friends,
they can link to it,
those kind of things,
and they can get players into
your game so you can sell games
and you can be successful.
So that's the idea with Game Center.
We want to make you successful.
Let's talk about some
of the new features.
Those are the features we had previously.
We've introduced some new features.
I want to walk you through
kind of the basics of them.
And later on this week,
we'll talk about the code you
have to write and things you
have to do specifically for
some of these new features.
And many of them are built right in,
such as sharing scores and achievements.
So a player can simply have
a great achievement here.
He's crazy good at Jetpack Joyride,
and he can decide he wants to share it.
We have the activity
sheet come up in iOS.
He will say he wants to share it.
He will say he wants to share it on
Facebook to let the world know how
good you are in Jetpack Joyride.
And it goes up to the
Facebook page to post that,
and it appears on the
Facebook wall of the player.
Great.
So this is a,
this again breaks down that small
circle around your game and lets
other people know about kind
of advertising for your game.
Let's talk about liking games.
Super simple.
In Game Center now,
we have the Like icon.
You can simply -- it's right there,
and you can simply press it.
Likes the game,
and what it does is it actually puts a
post on the player's wall about the game,
and the key here is it gives a direct
link back to the App Store for your game.
So if you have a -- if
you adopt Game Center,
new in iOS and will be
coming to the Mac also,
you can like games,
and that can give an outside world
the link back into your game.
Local multiplayer.
Local multiplayer is pretty cool.
So you have a bunch of people
who've gathered at the conference.
You may not all be friends
on Game Center right now,
but you're sitting next to each
other in one of the conference areas,
and you actually want
to play a game together.
What we can do is you can
go to local multiplayer,
and you get in here and you click
nearby and we fill that in with
the people who are close to you.
So it's ad hoc,
you don't need to be on a Wi-Fi network,
easy for kids to set up,
you may have your child go over
to someone else's house and they
want to play with their friends
and they don't have to get on
the Wi-Fi and do all that stuff,
they can simply do local multiplayer
and play with their friends.
So that's local multiplayer.
And challenges.
We love challenges.
Challenges are cool because
you've designed this fantastic,
brilliant puzzle game that's
a great single-person game,
a lot of replayability,
but it doesn't connect to other people.
Well, challenges makes that single-player
game a multiplayer game.
Someone can be going back and forth on
your puzzles with their friends saying,
hey, I finished this in 35 seconds,
beat that kind of thing.
So we can go back and
forth with challenges.
So how does it mechanize?
So you've made an achievement here in
Temple Run and you want to challenge
your friends for that achievement.
So you simply,
in the same kind of place where
you're inspecting your achievements,
you simply hit challenge friends.
It comes up with a text
box there you fill in.
Can you beat this score?
You send it over,
your friend gets the challenge.
It comes up in their challenges tab,
which is new for the new
Game Center in iOS 6.
They click on it,
and what they can see is they
can see who challenged them,
what the challenge is,
and they can either play now or they
can kind of whip out and decline
the challenge if they decide to.
But, of course, you want to play,
and they didn't know how good
of a Temple Run player you are.
They thought they would easily beat you.
In this case, they didn't.
You were easily able to
beat their challenge,
and what you wanted to do was
send back a score challenge.
So, in this case,
you've collected 1523 coins,
a good amount there,
and you want to send it back to them.
You can send back a score challenge.
What's interesting about score
challenges also is you have
this kind of auto-challenge.
Once it's sent back to them,
if they beat the challenge,
it'll auto-challenge them back.
So you can go back and forth
trying to one-up each other.
Again, replayability for your games.
Makes them sticky,
reminds people your games are there.
One of your players may not have
played your game and not have
bought any in-app purchases,
and some of their friends challenge them.
So they pick the game back
up and they play it again.
So we're trying to add that replayability
for you guys for your games.
So challenge goes back,
right back at you.
And there you go.
So that's challenges.
Turns that single-player
gaming experience,
that fantastic one that you've built,
into a great multiplayer experience
and keeps people engaged in your game.
So let's do a demo of a great
implementation of challenges.
I want to bring up Halfbrick, Adam Wood,
and Joe Gaatling to show we've kind of
challenged them to see what they could
do with challenges on Jetpack Joyride.
We've been playing with
Challengers for a few days now,
and we really wanted to see how we
could integrate this into our game.
So as you saw earlier,
Challengers work completely
from Game Center,
but it's also possible to integrate
them into the game as well.
So we've been playing around
with it for a little bit,
and we've come up with some
stuff that's pretty cool,
and we'd like to share it with you.
I sent Adam here a
challenge earlier today,
and now in front of all of you,
we're going to see whether or not
he can actually beat my score.
So I sent him 974 meters.
So let's take it away
and see if you can do it.
Okay, now,
if you've played Jetpack before,
the first thing you're going
to notice is that there's an
extra character on the screen.
This is actually me.
When I sent the challenge,
I also sent along with it a ghost so
that Adam has someone to race against.
So the way this works is
that when I was playing,
the game recorded every
movement that I made and every
obstacle that was generated.
At the end of the game,
we uploaded this to a server.
Now,
when you send a score to Game Center,
there is a 64-bit context variable
that's associated with it.
And we're using that context
to store a key so that we can
retrieve this ghost and level
information from our own servers.
So when I send the challenge to Adam,
that score and the associated
context goes with it.
And that's how he's able to download
the exact same level and all my
recorded ghost data onto his own device.
So even though he's still
just trying to get my score,
we've added an extra character
for him to run again.
So it's turned this asynchronous
challenge mode into what really
feels like an exciting and
engaging head-to-head match.
So I'm pretty confident that he's not
going to be able to beat my score,
but let's just see how this plays out.
All right, okay, well,
Adam always was slightly better
at this -- at me than this game.
I think he's going easy on me.
Now, as was mentioned earlier,
this challenge is now going to
be sent back to me automatically.
So we're going to have this
backwards and forwards going.
But if he wants,
he can forward this challenge
on to some of his other friends.
So here you can see he can click
to bring up a friend selection,
selects one or more friends,
and clicks send.
And now that challenge and the ghost
data and the level he was playing is
going to be sent on to his friends.
And that's how you can use
challenges to turn a single-player
game into an engaging game.
head-to-head style experience.
Thank you.
[Transcript missing]
So we also have a great
streamlined multiplayer UI.
This is fantastic where you have,
in this case,
you can get two to four players,
you can control, you can remove a player,
you can add a player,
you can fill in some players with your
friends if you want to play with friends,
but one of your friends isn't available,
so maybe you do an auto-invite.
Really easy to control it,
it's great pictures,
so it's a new streamlined multiplayer
UI in the new Game Center on iOS 6.
And also we have multiplayer rematch.
Multiplayer rematch allows you to
programmatically record that rematch
and record that match and re-invite
those players to another match.
It really helps out if you're doing
an auto-match and you kind of say,
"Hey, that was a great game.
Let's play again." You don't
have to find the same players.
You don't have to remember who they are.
You can do the auto-match and
pick up those auto-match players.
So another great thing
we've added to Game Center,
the new Game Center.
So those are kind of the social aspects.
We've also added things like
improved authentication,
which cleans up the
authentication flow for you guys.
We've added a unified interface.
When we do add new features,
you don't have to recode your
game for a real interface that
can be adopted automatically.
Turn timeouts, as I mentioned,
one of the things that was requested
from a turn-based game folks
is that you have three or four
players playing a game that does not
require everyone to be there for,
and one player decides I'm
losing so I'm not going to play,
and they halt the game.
So turn timeouts,
you can set that as a developer.
It's initially set at two weeks,
but you can bring it into whatever
your turn makes sense for you
guys and keeps your games flowing.
Programmatic invites,
you can do invites within your game,
so it really is nice.
It keeps you inside of that game like we
saw with challenges with Jetpack Joyride.
It keeps people inside the game itself.
We have host election.
We do an automatic job of finding
the best host for your game,
so that's fantastic because we allow,
we do the hard work for you,
figure out who the best
host is for the game.
And turn match data saving,
it sounds like you're kind of like, well,
what's that mean,
how does that fit together?
Well, let's say you have a game that has
multiple moves in a turn that you're
playing some kind of a strategy
game that you move multiple pieces.
But one turn, usually in your right hand,
you're going to have a game that has
multiple moves in a turn that you're
playing some kind of a strategy
game that you move multiple pieces.
But one turn, usually in your right hand,
you're going to have a game that has
multiple moves in a turn that you're
playing some kind of a strategy game
that you're moving multiple pieces.
but one turn usually right now is
that you only see the final results.
Well turn match data saving allows you
guys to show those those turns to all
the other players playing the game so you
can do that with turn match data saving.
So that's Game Center.
It provides the backbone for
your social gaming network.
Most of you are already on it.
The few of you who aren't on it,
now it's time to adopt it.
Hopefully we've given you some great new
features that can even make your gaming
experience for your players even better
and attract more players to your game.
So let's talk about AirPlay.
We talked again about it yesterday.
Kind of want to go through
some of the basics.
We talked about what it can
be used for streaming audio,
streaming video, mirror display,
second display.
We want to focus on that
second display piece.
So of course you can mirror
to a TV with your iPad.
Mac OS X Mountain Lion,
you can now mirror to a TV on your Mac,
and you can do second
display on iOS devices.
The great thing about second display is
the paradigms it adds for your games.
We talked about an action
game where you're looking up,
you can put content
on the second display,
and that allows players to concentrate
on the big display and have their kind
of radar panel or their simple controls.
Note here that what Sky Gamblers did
was they put really simple controls that
were cleverly placed for your thumbs,
and give you basic information
on the second display.
They didn't try and overload
you with too many controls here.
So this is a good idea,
a good paradigm to think about.
When you slow things down,
talk about the shared experience,
you have a game where you're
passing an iPad around.
In this case, we're using the full
multi-touch interface.
Because the person
who's playing the game,
they're actually drawing,
looking at the iPad.
The people who are playing with them,
sharing that experience,
are looking at the TV in this case.
Family Game Night,
everyone in this case has a device.
You're sharing the board.
Think about this as
your classic board game.
So you have a classic kind of board game.
Everyone has their units, their tiles,
their cards, or whatever,
and that's on their own device.
You could even, in this case,
since you're doing multiplayer and
the device is a single AirPlay device,
you can do, it could be a Mac down here,
it could be any iPads down here.
The devices at the end to share the
multiplayer can be any set of devices.
and finally,
a good example from Real Racing,
4-up racing action, divide the screen,
you have a big screen,
use that real estate,
divide it into four quadrants,
everyone has their controllers,
and you see that you have a
heads-up display on the iPad there.
So let's talk more about,
that's what we talked about yesterday,
let's talk a little bit
more about setting this up.
There's been some great
adoption of second display,
but we think there's probably more
great adoption out there also.
So it's really, really simple.
And the nice thing here is
that we talked about AirPlay,
but second display on iOS also
refers to plugging in displays.
So if you implement it once for AirPlay,
you've gotten plug-in displays also.
So if you plug in via an
HDMI connector to the dock port,
the 30-pin,
then you get both of those are
exactly the same code to support.
So set up at launch,
configure to display,
let's handle the rotation correctly.
Every now and then we see examples
of games where... you rotate it
and the TV image turns upside down,
we'll talk about handling that.
And a little bit about
design considerations.
This is really straightforward.
So when your app finishes launching,
you want to actually make sure you set up
the screens for whatever screens exist.
You also want to make sure
that you do two notifications.
One is to correctly handle
extreme connections,
and also disconnects.
Because you don't know what the
user's kind of set of actions are.
They could launch your game and say,
"Hey, I want to plug into the TV."
When they plug in at that point,
you're going to get the connection,
the connection to the TV,
and the disconnect notification
after your game started.
So make sure you handle those correctly.
If they said they didn't
want to be playing on TV,
they want to hop on the subway,
head to work, they want,
but they're playing the long game,
they just disconnect and you should
handle that gracefully and correctly.
So we configure the second display,
pretty straightforward.
If your screen counts greater than one,
you have a second display.
We're going to get the screen
and we create a new window.
Basically the screen size,
we introspect that,
grab the size out of it,
create the window.
We then want to create a view
controller for it as you would expect
that you do for your main display.
You do the same thing
for your second display.
and finally, super straightforward,
you create, you turn on,
you unhide the window or
instead make sure it's visible.
So handling rotation.
This is pretty straightforward,
but there's a little nuance here.
This is kind of like your,
this should be the default method,
but it's going to be the default
method that you write in your code.
So override the default method with this.
The idea here is for an iPad,
you want to handle all rotations.
So no matter which way
someone turns an iPad,
you do that.
But for a phone,
you want to make sure that we,
from our HI guidelines,
they don't turn the phone upside down,
and they should not have that rotation.
So the phone has three rotations
effectively that are viable,
which is straight up, normal, each side.
And then upside down is not,
we don't use the upside down one.
This means that we'll rotate
the image in the system.
We'll use a, you know,
our core animation layers,
we'll rotate it correctly for you.
So we put it out to both heads
that you're talking to now
with the correct rotation.
We do this because if
you do it in OpenGL,
for example, and say, hey,
my device got rotated,
I'm just going to change my
matrices and I'm going to
rotate it when I do my OpenGL,
what happens is you'll rotate your
device to match the player's angle,
and you'll rotate your device
to match the player's angle.
And your TV will turn upside down.
So you really want to make
sure you do it this way rather
than doing it in the OpenGL.
So this is the correct
way to handle rotation.
And then we talked about many
of these ideas with design,
like where is the user looking?
Are they looking up?
Are they looking down?
What kind of -- how do they control
the game and what should be displayed
on the device and on the TV?
And the last one is something
I want to carry through to the
end of the talk is about updates,
about performance of your application.
There's a lot of things
that you can do to adjust
performance of your application.
We don't have to get back to
the old paradigm of scaling
everything down to make it perform.
There's different ways
you can adjust this.
And so when you're using second display,
it may not be appropriate to run both
at full resolution or it may not be
appropriate to update both at 60 hertz.
Maybe your kind of your heads-up
display that's your controller
is doing great getting the
gyro input at a high frequency,
but you don't really need to update
that at more than 20 hertz or 30 hertz.
So you can limit the amount of
information going to the second display
while concentrating the majority
of your performance on the big screen.
So what that boils down to is
kind of two basic breakdowns.
You have the action game
where everyone's looking up,
simple controls on the
device in front of you,
and then you have the other
game where people are mainly
doing input via the device,
and the eyeballs for the person
holding the device is down.
So that's second display.
We'd love to see some of the
things you can do with it.
We think games are great when they,
and users really react to that.
You plug it in or you do an
AirPlay mirror and the device does
exactly what they expect it to and
it enhances the gaming experience.
using second display.
So that's AirPlay.
Next, let's talk about Core Image.
So Core Image is a fantastic
technology for image manipulation
that's across both iOS and OS X.
And most of you think of Core Image,
you think of this kind of thing.
If you're familiar with Core Image,
you think it's a photo manipulation API.
So Core Image is the backbone
of iPhoto and Aperture,
but it's more than that.
It provides pixel-level effects
and optimized pixel-level effects,
and it can provide a chain of
them and optimizes that chain.
So what you have here is you have
someone who wanted to take an
image and put an artistic effect,
which in this case is a sepia filter.
They did a hue shift,
and then they did a contrast on
that to get the effect they wanted.
Well, how can you apply that to games?
If we think about it,
if you look at the game,
you can see that there's a lot
of different ways to play games.
So if you look at movies and you look
at games through the last few years,
games can be more and more cinematic.
And this allows you a really good
hook into that cinematic solution.
So if you look at a movie,
let's go back a little ways,
look at The Matrix.
The Matrix was color graded.
When you're in The Matrix,
everything kind of had
this green tinge to it.
It got that uncomfortable
feeling for the viewer.
And the real world didn't have that.
You can do the same thing in your game.
If you have two areas of play,
or if you have someone who's,
when you're damaged,
or you want to make the player,
you can do that.
You can do things that are, you know,
uneasy.
You can do things at an image level
to do that post-processing effect
on your game to add play value.
You see some of the high-budget
games are doing this.
Well, with Core Image,
you can bring that to both OS X and
to the mobile space for iOS.
And you can do the same level of
color grading and post-processing
effects with Core Image.
So let's look at an example.
So we have Mr.
Big Sword here,
and you want to do a glow effect.
You could do this in OpenGL using shells,
or you can make some additional textures,
or some things with dot product,
but instead, let's just take that sprite
and do a glow effect.
If you're really sneaky about it,
you can control the alpha correctly,
so you can do that on a sprite basis,
and you can stamp the
sprite down on your 2D game,
for example,
and have that Core Image effect come up.
And this is so you render into a texture,
and then you apply this.
Another example is,
you've rendered this great scene.
We use this,
I think we saw this last year.
This is this great kind of dungeon scene,
and you have this, you want foreboding.
You want this to be darker and
kind of narrow the user's vision.
Well, you can easily do that
with a vignette effect.
So what you did,
you did a post-process on it,
you applied the vignette effect,
filter we already have,
and you bring it down in,
you focus the user.
In this case,
maybe you have a some sort of surprise or
a creature coming out from that hallway.
It didn't really want to make it just
the baked-in lighting to your scene.
You wanted to make it more closed in.
Another example is a sprite-based game.
In this case, you have kind of your
standard sprite-based shooter,
and you wanted to do something,
either maybe the player gets damaged
and it's a little harder to play,
or there's a screen transition.
You can simply use a blur effect here,
and it's a full-screen blur
effect using Core Image.
And the important thing here is you don't
have to write a full library to do this.
We give you a library to do it,
we give you optimized effects,
and you can chain them together
in a million different ways.
They're like building blocks.
And while one block could be interesting,
you put a lot of blocks together,
and it gets really interesting.
Here's another example.
We took that same scene,
but that was great.
So after you escaped the corridor
and you got around the corner,
you realized it was a control room,
and the control room had monitors
throughout this haunted mansion.
And so you wanted to do something
to indicate to the user that it
really was a TV screen or a monitor.
So you can use Core Image and
you get this kind of contrasty,
noisy monitor kind of effect,
and that gives players that idea
that it's different than just
them looking at it normally.
And again,
this is to enhance that production value,
make the players really
attracted to your game.
So how does this work?
Well, what you do is, for OpenGL,
you render to an FBO,
render to a texture,
and use that as an input to Core Image.
All of this can stay on the GPU.
You don't have to come
back to the CPU to do it.
So it can all stay accelerated.
Core Image is fully accelerated.
It can come across,
and then you use the results
of that to draw to your screen.
You can also replace the word "screen"
with "sprite." So for example,
if you were rendering a very
complicated sprite using 3D,
you could render the sprite,
you could apply a
Core Image effect like the glow,
and then you could render to a
sprite which then you use later as an
OpenGL texture back into your scene.
One thing to think about here is
the update rate for your effects.
Not every effect needs
to be updated at 60 Hz.
For sprites, maybe you can either
process them statically,
or if you have something
that's very dynamic,
you update them at the rate
that that sprite would update.
So you don't need to do
everything at the frame rate.
You can do things at a
rate for the effect itself.
So this saves you some processing power.
And keep that in mind when
you're using Core Image.
An example of the film
grain example we showed.
In this case,
you have a couple of Core Image effects.
You have noise generators
to generate some noise.
You have a minimum filter.
The image coming in the side is
combined with the first set of
noise that's blended together,
and then you can blend
another filter together.
The idea here is that you have
multiple blends you can do.
You can blend things in different orders,
different pieces.
So you can combine a long filter chain
and make a very compelling example.
So, speaking of compelling examples,
I'd like to bring up Jacques to talk
about a little example he put together in
a few days using Core Image and showing
how it can add to your gaming experience.
Jacques.
Thank you.
Hi there, I'm Jacques.
As Geoff just told you,
I'd like to show you an example of a
little application I was toying with.
Now, Core Image is a great API for you to
modify your effects that you've made.
So here I have this simple kind of gloomy
forest where I want this sense of depth.
I've created this with
just flat graphics.
This is procedurally generated terrain.
I've hand-painted a couple of
tree trunks and some branches.
And I'm conveying the idea,
but that's about it.
So I can use Core Image here
to help me out to convey what
I'm really after a bit better.
So the first problem here is
there's no sense of fog here.
And what I'm really
after is a ground fog,
so...
I'm going to turn on a filter
here to just apply a little bit
of noise and a linear gradient.
And you can see how I have this
moving fog that's sort of stuck in the
little valleys between the different--
[Transcript missing]
So I'd like to add some more
visual effects on top of this.
And, you know, a dark, dim forest,
you know, it needs fireflies.
So fireflies, I could have drawn these,
but really, since I'm using Core Image,
I've got all these amazing tools,
I just had a point,
and I applied bloom to that
to get this sort of glow.
And it's tiny, so I can do this really,
really quickly.
And you see how I've got
this little ambiance going.
Okay, so I'm going to go over to more
full-screen effects now to,
you know,
make this feel a bit more immersive.
So it doesn't quite feel old enough.
Not like you're at an old
cinema and it's black and white.
That's kind of what I'm after.
I'm going to apply a vignette and
a camera tracking error to it,
and also a varying light bulb.
So you can see how it's kind of a
film that's lit with an incandescent
light bulb that's being projected,
and it's feeling pretty grungy right now.
And these are some simple things
that you can do with some fairly
simple Core Image filter chains.
And you can see that I'm
all doing this in real time.
And it's about picking what to do when.
And then, of course,
because this is Core Image,
I can pick another crazy
filter if I want to.
So why not just distort the whole world?
And I can just play with it.
And this is just a few lines.
So that's some of the fun things
things you can do with Core Image.
Thank you.
So as you saw, Jacques used a number of
Core Image filters to make
some great cinematic effects.
And what's interesting is first
this was done in a few days.
It was done with very little art and did
a great job of conveying the idea that
he wanted with some layering of these
simple effects on top of each other.
And it would be, if you,
the alternative would have been
either to build your own kind of
image processing kind of library,
which is probably,
you don't want to do that.
You want to use the tools that,
as Jacques said, you're given.
And so using Core Image for that,
probably not a good
choice to build your own.
Or you could have done some,
a lot of effects in OpenGL.
You could have done a lot of
post-processing effects yourself.
And that, some of these effects really
are in the image space.
And you should realize that
they're in the image space.
So render your scene
like you want it to be.
Whether it's a sprite-based
thing like a side scroller like
Jacques has with Parallax or
whether it's a full 3D application.
And then you can use Core Image to
apply those kind of effects
on top of it in real time.
These are kind of a list of some
of the filters that are available.
And these are available on iOS and OS X.
And an interesting note,
a trivia about that demo,
that actually only used
six of these filter effects
combined in different manners.
So you can see that there's a lot,
almost infinite possibilities
for you folks with your game.
And we can't wait to see what kind
of things you can do with Core Image.
So that's Core Image.
Core Image is available for OS X,
available for iOS.
It's a great use in post-processing,
using your rendering pipeline.
Normally you would think about
it just used as kind of a
photograph processing environment.
We do use it on the iPhone
also for the auto-enhance,
but it also can be used in real
time as a great thing to add depth,
add complexity,
add visual presence to your game.
Core Image.
Yesterday, we announced the new
MacBook Pro with Retina display.
It's a brilliant, brilliant screen.
I hope all of you had a chance
to look at the ones out there.
It is just absolutely stunning and
amazing to get that level of clarity.
And we want to talk about kind of
using that in the game paradigm.
So we now have Retina
displays across the products,
across all of our platforms.
and you can achieve
this level of fidelity.
And actually,
this looks fantastic up here,
but realize that this is
not the full actual pixel.
We had to actually scale this down
significantly to get it onto the slide.
So actually,
it looks even more clear when
you're playing a game like
Diablo 3 with the retina display.
So when you're developing for OS X,
keep in mind retina displays,
even when you're developing for iOS,
keep in mind you have retina displays
to really utilize that full fidelity.
So how do you do that?
Well, we've talked about iOS previously.
Let's review for the Mac.
We've done a lot of work
in the OS to help you out.
So first thing is you have to
make sure your artwork matches
the resolution for the display.
This would be reminders that was
not updated for retina display,
had pixelated artwork.
And when you update it,
it's not going to be the same
resolution as the display.
So you have to make sure that
you're not using the same
resolution for the display.
So if you're using the same
resolution for the display,
you're not using the same
resolution for the display.
So if you're using the same
resolution for the display,
you're not using the same
resolution for the display.
And when you update it,
it looks brilliant.
We take care of a lot of this for you.
Anything up there that's a system font,
we're going to do that for you.
Anything up there that's
the system controls,
we also will-- that artwork
is already in high res,
already up res-ed for you.
That's not a problem.
So the only thing you have to
do is supply the pieces that are
actually in your application.
I supply the artwork
for those for that step.
The second out of these four steps
is opt into high resolution OpenGL.
So you said you want
best resolution OpenGL,
and also as a second step,
make sure that you convert the bounds to
pixels and provide that in GL viewport.
And you see this convert rec to backing.
And that is a routine.
There's a family of those routines.
And it's really important to understand
those and use those properly.
Because in this case, the GL viewport,
of course, OpenGL pixel based.
GL viewport takes your pixels.
And the self-balance is in points.
So you do that conversion.
It gets the right thing.
You have a viewport that
spans the entire screen.
Eliminate deprecated API.
If you're using Quick Draw, move away.
Move off of it.
NS MovieView, great.
A number of years ago, right now,
it does not understand how to
do high-resolution graphics.
Quick Draw does not
understand retina displays.
So get off of these deprecated APIs.
And I'm not talking about APIs that
you're guessing at being deprecated.
I'm talking about the ones that
actually are marked deprecated.
So you should be able to tell in
the latest SDKs the deprecated API.
Move on to the modern equivalents.
Many times, we'll point you to a new API.
Move to those, and you'll be doing great.
And finally, as I alluded to,
do correct use of pixels and points.
For example, in this case,
you get the size of the image in pixels.
You want to actually pass it
to the initCG image in points.
So what we need to do is you need
to convert size from backing.
In other words, conversion routines,
that family of conversion routines.
So realize when you have to
convert points and pixels.
And if you notice,
the sizes in points and size
came out of CG image in pixels.
So understand what your routines take
in and what your routines put out.
Straightforward,
just make sure you get that math right.
It should be fairly clear when you don't.
You'll get either fuzzy images,
or you'll get things that
aren't the right size.
You'll get quarter-sized
images of pieces.
So it should be fairly clear as
you walk through your application.
So that's talking about retina displays
from a standpoint of the mechanics of it.
But as I spoke of before,
one thing we wanted to talk
about is moving to the future of
the graphics and display pipes
and how to think about this.
So a number of years ago, we had CRTs,
and it was fairly easy
to scale performance,
especially when you're drawing with
a CPU and your CPU has a limited
ability to fill pixels and minimally
accelerated graphics card that you
provide the user with a switch that
would allow them to pick resolutions.
I remember my, what game was it?
It was a very old Bungie game that
I had a friend who was great at it.
And he played the game in
literally like a one-time game.
And he had a one-inch by one-inch
window to get the frame rate out of it.
That shouldn't be something today that
we're letting users trying to figure out.
A user should not be going, well,
how big do I need to make my
screen to play this game properly?
You have enough facilities with
the APIs we give you to render
the game at a reasonable size,
understand what the frame rate is,
scale that to different
performance and different machines,
and fill the screen.
So leave the screen as native resolution.
Render the screen at an
appropriate resolution.
To get the performance you need.
You have a few choices here.
First,
if you can render at retina resolution,
fantastic, do it.
Go to full retina resolution,
whatever the platform you're on,
render it at that
brilliantly sharp resolution.
Give the player pixel
for pixel in your game.
If you can't though,
you can always decide to render to
a smaller buffer in the background.
So you render to a smaller buffer and
that scales to the screen and will
scale the fit with bilinear scaling.
And it turns out that in many cases,
if you're rendering above,
somewhere between that quarter
size and the full size retina,
there's a sweet spot.
There's a good spot for you.
Where effectively you're doing
much less pixel processing,
but the output looks very similar,
very close to that native retina.
Not quite the same,
but it's very close and the
trade off for you is really good.
So again, if you're pixel bound,
your GPU cannot drive the number
of pixels you have on your screen,
you want to scale that resolution,
reduce the number of pixels,
and then you'll be able
to up that frame rate.
A good test for this is if you scale
your backing store to be smaller
and your frame rate doesn't change.
That probably means, probably means,
unless you've done some
strange things in your code,
but probably means you're not pixel
bound and that something else in your
application is limiting the frame rate.
So that's something you should test
before you start playing around
with scaling and assuming that it's
going to do something in your app.
Make sure you're actually pixel bound.
And finally, as we talked about,
there's this post processing paradigm.
Make your game have a lot of
visual value for the user.
So in this case, render to texture.
You render to a texture,
you can decide what size that is,
and then you add a
filter onto the texture.
You can add a filter onto
the back of that and put that
out to the final resolution.
You can do a lot of
different things there.
You want to optimize your app
for great user experience.
You don't want to have the user,
the person effectively
administrating the system trying
to figure out what resolution.
You don't want to come up in 1024 by 768,
because that's what
you've done for 12 years.
You want to come up using the
full resolution available,
make your game brilliant,
make them love your game,
so when the new player picks it up,
the first thing they see is
something that just looks awesome.
It's not, oh, choose a resolution.
I don't know what resolution I got,
so I'll just pick one,
and they may get stuck there.
So think about that
from a user experience.
Leave the display in native mode,
render your content to the right size,
and your users will be
much happier for it,
and they'll have a great,
great experience.
So that was Retina Display.
So the final thing I want to
talk about is graphics tools.
We talked about being pixel bound.
The previous discussion of dev
tools showed some of the graphics
tools and showed some of the
great tools we have for OpenGL ES.
We have three fantastic tools.
We introduced them last year
and we continue to improve them.
We have the
OpenGL ES Performance Detective.
That gives you that high-level,
really quick view, very actionable,
what you can do to improve
the performance of your
graphics in your application.
The second tool we provide is the
OpenGL ES Analyzer instrument.
This hooks into instruments and
gives you that under-the-covers,
in-depth look at what the GPU is doing,
exactly what's happening on the system,
and so you can figure out
where your bottlenecks are.
This is that really,
let's pull the covers off, look inside,
and see what's going on.
and the OpenGL ES Debugger.
The ES Debugger is brilliant.
It's an absolutely brilliant tool.
It allows you to introspect
a frame of your application.
It allows you to tear it apart,
look down to the minutest
detail of OpenGL state,
what exactly the commands
that are being issued,
exactly how all the objects
in your scene are being drawn,
and allows you to really,
really kind of dissect your graphics
and understand where your problems are,
where your performance issues are.
And now we've added some things to
it that it really also works as a
great development tool to you to
work as you develop your shaders
and modify your applications.
And all these are built
into the Xcode environment.
Let's talk about some new things.
Like I alluded to, shaders.
Shader edit and continue.
Fantastic feature.
So you have a shader that's doing
something in your application
and you want to change it.
You want to modify it.
You want to change the color blending.
You want to change how
much contrast is in there.
You want to change how it handles the
vertices or how it handles fragments.
You can do that inside of the debugger.
So you don't have to come out,
rewrite it, recompile, rerun.
Write it, recompile, rerun.
We've all done that.
It's not a great way to debug.
This is great.
You can fix it.
You can change it.
You can fix problems, edit, and continue.
We have an integrated OpenGL ES expert.
In this case, you have this expert panel,
and I'll show this in
action in a little bit.
And it really looks
after your application.
It's kind of the nanny
behind you that says,
hey, by the way, look at that.
You have a redundant call.
You've called GL viewport
with the same coordinates.
So you're wasting your time.
And this is good for
redundant state changes.
It's good for GL errors.
It's good for a lot of the
common mistakes in OpenGL.
And every time you run your application,
you can bring it up.
It's right there to
maintain your application,
make sure it's really clean.
We have save and load captured frames.
In this case, you find a frame,
you find a problem in your,
you have an artist or
something like that,
you have someone who's doing some of
the scripting and they find a problem,
they can use the X code,
they can run the frame to the problem,
they can stop and capture it,
and then they can capture that frame
and send it off to their OpenGL expert
to debug exactly what's going on.
This is a fantastic debugging tool,
especially with more than one person,
or if you don't have time right now,
you saw a problem,
you wanted to capture the frame,
you capture it, let's look at it later,
let's fix it a little bit later,
so you can do that.
It's great for save and
load captured frames.
Integrated Performance Detective.
As I talked about, the DevTools section,
we have this Integrated
Performance Detective right in there.
It gives you that high-level view of
what's going on with your application,
very actionable items,
and it's now integrated right into Xcode.
And we put a ton of time into that.
And of course, the tools are faster,
they're more accurate,
and they give you more detail.
The team has done a fantastic
job building brilliant tools,
and so let's take a look at the tools
and see what we can do with them.
This is a project we created to show
off some graphics technologies here.
Let's hide that out of the
way and we'll close that one.
So we have our application and
we're going to just run the app.
We're going to compile here
and we have our laptop.
We're all good, or not laptop, our iPad.
And we're going to switch to
the iPad and see what we get.
So we have this fantastic simulation
of this temple with some lights.
And it looks great,
but I do notice in this
that something is missing.
The lights inside, you can see they're
reflecting on the surfaces,
but there's nothing casting the light.
So we've modified this,
we've played with it,
and we don't really know what's going on.
So let's jump into the debugger
and actually try and figure
out what the problem is.
We're going to go back
to the primary here.
We see this little
camera icon right here.
So we're going to hit that camera icon.
And what it's doing,
if you look at the top,
it's capturing OpenGL ES frame
is what it says right up here
at the very top of the screen.
And so we're going to
let it capture the frame.
It paused the application.
It grabs all the OpenGL calls
and puts them into this kind
of introspection area here.
And so let's take a little tour of
this so you can see all the pieces.
Some of this is hard to
read at this resolution.
So I'm going to talk through
what some of the areas are.
On the side over here,
it says light prepass.
It has that frames per second meter
that the dev tools folks talked about.
You have your rendering commands.
If you notice,
this says like GL push group marker.
This is GL enable, GL enable,
GL blend funk.
So these are all the OpenGL commands.
Every single OpenGL commands with
the parameters that were passed
into it to render this frame.
So you can completely introspect
exactly how the single frame was built.
You have at the bottom down here,
the bottom area, you have a GL context.
So if I look at GL viewport,
it gives me the information
in the GL viewport.
It gives me the active texture unit.
All the things that you would expect
in OpenGL state is portrayed here.
So when you stop it,
you can say what was my state?
Did I have blending turned on?
Where were the texture units set?
And finally, over in this section,
you have the GL objects.
And so these GL objects are the active
objects right now for the frame.
So that's the main thing.
Another interesting thing to
look at is the GL objects.
And so these GL objects are the active
objects right now for the frame.
So this is the final frame of the scene.
That's okay.
I mean,
that tells you what it looks like.
But let's say you wanted to
look at an earlier kind of point
as you put the scene together.
So we're going to go back to here.
And what you see here
is on the right side,
you see a partially rendered frame.
You see a depth buffer.
And then you see an empty stencil buffer.
Let's go way back in time, so to speak.
And you can see how the frame
is actually being rendered here.
We're actually rendering
the temple itself.
And I can hide the wireframe.
And you can see that's the actual temple.
If we move forward a little bit,
you can see even more.
We'll hide the wireframe here,
and you can see we've rendered
the tree in the temple for
the part of the lighting pass.
So what was our problem
we were looking at?
The problem we were looking
at is as you see this frame,
you see lighting on the structure
but no lights casting it.
So we're going to use the
integrated issue detective,
and of course we have tooltips.
The issue navigator here,
we'll click on it.
And if you look on the issue navigator,
what we see here is there's
two errors called out.
And it turns out that our debugging
tools will call GL error on
the end of every call of yours,
and will capture those errors for you so
you can actually see what the errors are.
Let's click on an error
and see what it says.
So what it's saying here
is for this GL depth thunk,
an enumerated argument
with unacceptable value.
Well, I know that GL depth thunk
can't take a GL false,
so maybe I should change that,
but I don't think that's
what they intended.
I think they actually intended
to... to put depth mask in here
because depth mask can take false.
So we'll put depth mask.
And this other one down here,
the second one, has the same problem.
We'll put depth mask.
And let's stop the program,
let's run it again.
And we can switch back
to the iPad as it builds.
So we built, we succeeded,
it looks pretty good.
And we'll see if we actually
get the lights as we expected.
Perfect.
So that was using the debugger
to find a GL error in your
application that may have,
as you coded it up or
as you're changing code,
you may have missed it.
It now shows the full
simulation with the lights.
The simulation's beautiful.
They did a great job
with this image effect,
this lighting effect.
So, game technologies.
We have sessions all week on all kinds
of different game technologies from media
to graphics to tools to Game Center.
Look on your schedule,
go to those technologies.
Thank you very much.
Have a great conference.